1. create a cl  program which acts like a utility to copy data between files.
There should be one setup file which has fromfile  and tofile as fields and cl program should read records from
this file and do cpyf between from file and tofile.   If file doesn't exist it should create destination file with same name FROMFILE field.
SETUPFILE--PF
Q1CLP -- PGM

2. Create a cl program to take date  as input and select all purchase orders for that date and then rpgle program should generate a report. Use purchase order master and detail file created before.
Q2CLPR --> RPT
Q2CLP --> CLP
Q2RPGLE --> PGM

3. Revisit same student assignment to take input as roll no and display marks for each subject  and total/subtotal /percentage at end.
This should be ILE program  , we should have module which take 2 values as input and returns percentage as o.p.
In this case it will take total marks obtained and total marks as input and will return percentage.
once f7 is pressed it should generate a report showing marksheet for student , this report program should be separate module and will be called on pressing f7

4.we have different applications sending item data to system.
create different item file for each application and one dummy file matching structure.
create a cl program to take application id as input and it should override appropriate application file to dummy file before calling rpgle program .
rpgle program will have dummy file in f-spec and it should just copy these items into item master pf
fields present in these files will be item no , item description , perunit price

5. repeat same 4th question using member concept , instead of different files add members to item file for each app and it should override those.

6 Create a cl program to take date  as input and select all purchase orders for that date  and create a output extract file in cl itself , This file will have order no , itemno , qty,date as fields. It should select records for that date and ship flag as 'Y'

7. Create a cl program to take department no as input and retrieve department name and display using sndpgmmsg .

8. Create cl program to take file name as input and delete complete data of that file .
Q8CLP

9. Repeat question 8 using sql query in clp.
q9clp